Evo first drove the bugatti veyron in
2005 with it then unheard-of 987
horsepower it comprehensively blew us
away that was then and this is now and
this is the extraordinary bagatti Veyron
16.4 Grand Sport Vitesse and it has an
incredible eleven hundred and
eighty-three brake horsepower key
differences between the original Veyron
and this include revised cooling intakes
on the front for bigger turbochargers
lighter wheels and for this the open
soft ground sport version carbon fiber
intakes either side of the engine enough
and batten what does 1193 horsepower
they'll like on the road it feels like
this
and how does the Bugatti Grand Sport
Vitesse handle the corners whatever
isn't pretty well actually the car feels
much lighter than you would expect the
engine and gearbox alone it weighs
around 650 kilos and I must admit before
I drove this car I was expecting all of
that mass to feel like it was going to
overtake the front and move around but
it contains that mass so well but
overall this is a really well-balanced
car it's really responsive to either
more gas or less gas or more steering or
less doing
and you need that on a car like this
because everything just happens so much
faster I mean here we go on the XM
corner second gear I mean that that just
felt like there wasn't a straight there
it felt like we just left from one
corner to the next
on the braking side you have carbon
ceramic brakes all round and they offer
really fantastic braking performance the
pedal feel is obviously we often
complain on Eva about pedal feel for
carbon ceramic brakes sometimes you have
a dead spot at the very top
well actually the top of the pedal
there's really important piece of
feedback at the top of the pedal it's
really good and you also have I wouldn't
say it's a soft pedal but it's not a
hard pedal either so you have really
nice progressive action
more ABS they're turning little bit
understeer this corner tightens up
frankly I've been here through here
before otherwise I'd be in that rock
great direction change
see I didn't get that stole 1200
horsepower there at million nine hundred
that was a mere 600 one of the great
little treats about this car is watching
the rear spoiler activate you can press
the button into Handling mode just down
here by the gear shifter and you can see
the thing raised up interestingly it
goes so high that you look straight
underneath it so that your rear
visibility isn't compromised I do wish I
had a little bit more good corn and
feedback from the steering the turbo lag
is curious the turbo lag accentuates the
sensation of acceleration you get this
sudden whoosh and the turbo comes in but
actually there are an occasion when
you're in a corner second gear and
you're ready to go on your way to a
normally aspirated engine will always
deliver that crisper throttle response
but then a normally aspirated engine
it's never going to get you to 1,200
horsepower on the road often on Evo we
in mind the lack of a manual gearbox in
in supercars or any cars to be honest
however with this to know what I'm not
sure if I want to be changing gear
manually with this amount of performance
on offer so much of your concentration
is focused on the road ahead
I'm quite happy with this dual clutch
gearbox and the way it works
super super impressive when as good as
these Spanish roads are you're never
going to get the chance to give it the
full welly however yesterday on a
private test track I did this
that is 228 miles an hour with the roof
off how did it feel well the car felt
very very stable I didn't need to grip
the steering wheel very hard it was
really really nice just to keep the car
and I said straight course didn't really
feel like getting affected by any
crosswinds it was a little bit windy
overall the car though felt super stable
and this is the incredible thing this is
a road car it's a road car
the only way I can really describe the
sensation you get when you're pushing
this power hard
it's a cliche and I hate to say it but
it does feel like when you're on the top
of Bamako and you get that feeling of
hesitation or pause and then you drop
over the edge
and that's that feeling in this car
except that feeling you know I thought I
knew fast cars I'm very fortunate being
the editor of Evo and even Enzo's and
Carrera GTS and all sorts of weird and
wonderful cars but this this really is
another lead some GTR fanboys who are
watching this video will say yeah but
you know GTR is just as quick and it's
you know a fraction of the price blah
blah blah
we love the GTR is an extraordinary car
and actually 260 miles now very similar
figure very similar you know to two and
a half to now seconds or so the
extraordinary thing about this car he's
at 60 to 100 feels just as violent as
naught to 60 and 100 to 150 feels just
as violent as naught to 60
it just keeps keeps going
I wish you were here I wish you a sat
next to me now to fail this is life
it really is an extraordinary
you